>>> THE PRESIDENT’S CAMPAIGN
>>> THE PRESIDENT’S CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN PAUL MANAFORT RECEIVED
CHAIRMAN PAUL MANAFORT RECEIVED A SENTENCE OF 47 MONTHS IN
A SENTENCE OF 47 MONTHS IN FEDERAL PRISON FOR TAX CRIMES
FEDERAL PRISON FOR TAX CRIMES AND BANK FRAUD, JUST UNDER FOUR
AND BANK FRAUD, JUST UNDER FOUR YEARS IN FEDERAL PRISON.
YEARS IN FEDERAL PRISON. BUT THAT IS ALSO WELL BELOW THE
BUT THAT IS ALSO WELL BELOW THE SENTENCING GUIDELINES THAT WERE
SENTENCING GUIDELINES THAT WERE SPELLED OUT FOR MANAFORT’S
SPELLED OUT FOR MANAFORT’S CRIMES.
CRIMES. BEFORE THE SENTENCING TODAY,
BEFORE THE SENTENCING TODAY, IT’S INTERESTING, WE CONTACTED
IT’S INTERESTING, WE CONTACTED FORMER FBI CHUCK ROSENBURG TO
FORMER FBI CHUCK ROSENBURG TO ASK CHUCK BECAUSE HE USED TO BE
ASK CHUCK BECAUSE HE USED TO BE THE U.S. ATTORNEY IN THE EASTERN
THE U.S. ATTORNEY IN THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA, WE ASKED
DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA, WE ASKED HIM WHAT WE SHOULD WATCH FOR
HIM WHAT WE SHOULD WATCH FOR TODAY AT THE SENTENCING, WHAT WE
TODAY AT THE SENTENCING, WHAT WE SHOULD EXPECT AND CHUCK TOLD US
SHOULD EXPECT AND CHUCK TOLD US QUOTE, IF HE GOES LOW, DON’T BE
QUOTE, IF HE GOES LOW, DON’T BE SHOCKED.
SHOCKED. I DON’T KNOW IF I’M SHOCKED BY
I DON’T KNOW IF I’M SHOCKED BY THE AMOUNT OF TIME THAT PAUL
THE AMOUNT OF TIME THAT PAUL MANAFORT IS GETTING.
MANAFORT IS GETTING. I THINK I STILL REMAIN THE
I THINK I STILL REMAIN THE CAPACITY JUST TO BE SHOCKED BY
CAPACITY JUST TO BE SHOCKED BY THE FACT THAT THE CAMPAIGN
THE FACT THAT THE CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN FOR THE SITTING
CHAIRMAN FOR THE SITTING PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES IS GOING TO PRISON AT ALL, BUT
IS GOING TO PRISON AT ALL, BUT FOR SOME PERSPECTIVE, NOW THAT
FOR SOME PERSPECTIVE, NOW THAT WE’VE GOT THESE NUMBERS, JOINING
WE’VE GOT THESE NUMBERS, JOINING US NOW IS BARB McQUAID.
US NOW IS BARB McQUAID. SHE WAS IN THE COURTROOM FOR
SHE WAS IN THE COURTROOM FOR MUCH OF MANAFORT’S TRIAL IN
MUCH OF MANAFORT’S TRIAL IN VIRGINIA.
VIRGINIA. THANKS FOR BEING HERE.
THANKS FOR BEING HERE. GOOD TO HAVE YOU.
GOOD TO HAVE YOU. >> THANKS FOR HAVING ME, RACHEL.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME, RACHEL. >> HAVING SEEN A LOT OF THAT
>> HAVING SEEN A LOT OF THAT TRIAL AND KNOWING WHAT YOU KNOW
TRIAL AND KNOWING WHAT YOU KNOW ABOUT JUDGE ELLIS AND THE
ABOUT JUDGE ELLIS AND THE SENTENCING GUIDELINES AND
SENTENCING GUIDELINES AND OVERALL CONTACTS IN MANAFORT’S
OVERALL CONTACTS IN MANAFORT’S CASE, WHAT IS YOUR REACTION TO
CASE, WHAT IS YOUR REACTION TO THE SENTENCE THAT MANAFORT GOT
THE SENTENCE THAT MANAFORT GOT TONIGHT?
TONIGHT? >> I STILL THINK THIS IS AN
>> I STILL THINK THIS IS AN ABSURDLY LOW SENTENCE IN LIGHT
ABSURDLY LOW SENTENCE IN LIGHT OF THE SENTENCING GUIDELINES.
OF THE SENTENCING GUIDELINES. I OBSERVED THE JUDGE TO BE CORKY
I OBSERVED THE JUDGE TO BE CORKY AND ALSO TO HAVE EXPRESSED SOME
AND ALSO TO HAVE EXPRESSED SOME HOSTILITY ABOUT THIS CASE, AND
HOSTILITY ABOUT THIS CASE, AND THE SPECIAL COUNSEL AND
THE SPECIAL COUNSEL AND MANAFORT’S CONNECTION TO
MANAFORT’S CONNECTION TO PRESIDENT TRUMP.
PRESIDENT TRUMP. I DON’T KNOW THAT THOSE THINGS
I DON’T KNOW THAT THOSE THINGS INFORMED HIS DECISION.
INFORMED HIS DECISION. ONE OF THE THINGS YOU SEE IN
ONE OF THE THINGS YOU SEE IN CASES IS JUDGES WHO IMPOSE VERY
CASES IS JUDGES WHO IMPOSE VERY LENIENT SENTENCES AGAINST WHITE
LENIENT SENTENCES AGAINST WHITE COLLARED DEFENDANTS.
COLLARED DEFENDANTS. THE SENTENCING GUIDELINES ARE
THE SENTENCING GUIDELINES ARE BASED ON DATA THEY COLLECT FROM
BASED ON DATA THEY COLLECT FROM AROUND THE COUNTRY.
AROUND THE COUNTRY. IT’S BASED ON REAL CASES AND THE
IT’S BASED ON REAL CASES AND THE IDEA BEHIND IT IS WE DON’T WANT
IDEA BEHIND IT IS WE DON’T WANT UNWARRANTED DISPARITIES BETWEEN
UNWARRANTED DISPARITIES BETWEEN SENTENCES.
SENTENCES. IF YOU COMMIT A CRIME IN
IF YOU COMMIT A CRIME IN WASHINGTON D.C. OR NEW YORK OR
WASHINGTON D.C. OR NEW YORK OR TEXAS YOU’RE LIKELY TO GET THE
TEXAS YOU’RE LIKELY TO GET THE SAME SENTENCE REGARDLESS OF
SAME SENTENCE REGARDLESS OF WHERE THE JUDGE IS WHO SENTENCES
WHERE THE JUDGE IS WHO SENTENCES YOU.
YOU. SO THAT’S WHAT THE GUIDELINES
SO THAT’S WHAT THE GUIDELINES ARE THERE TO SERVE IS THAT
ARE THERE TO SERVE IS THAT PURPOSE TO GIVE YOU THAT
PURPOSE TO GIVE YOU THAT BASELINE SO THAT EQUAL CRIME IS
BASELINE SO THAT EQUAL CRIME IS BEING PUNISHED EQUALLY.
BEING PUNISHED EQUALLY. TO DROP DOWN FROM 19 YEARS TO 24
TO DROP DOWN FROM 19 YEARS TO 24 YEARS, ALL THE WAY DOWN TO FOUR
YEARS, ALL THE WAY DOWN TO FOUR YEARS, I THINK SUGGESTIONS THAT
YEARS, I THINK SUGGESTIONS THAT THE WEALTHY AND POWERFUL DO
THE WEALTHY AND POWERFUL DO BETTER IN COURT THAN MANY OTHER
BETTER IN COURT THAN MANY OTHER DEFENDANTS DO AND I THINK IT IS
DEFENDANTS DO AND I THINK IT IS AN ATTACK ON THE LEGITIMACY AT
AN ATTACK ON THE LEGITIMACY AT THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM.
THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM. IF YOU’RE LACKING IN POWER, YOU
IF YOU’RE LACKING IN POWER, YOU LOOK AT A SENTENCE LIKE THIS AND
LOOK AT A SENTENCE LIKE THIS AND IT CAUSES PEOPLE TO HAVE LESS
IT CAUSES PEOPLE TO HAVE LESS TRUST IN THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE
TRUST IN THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM.
SYSTEM. >> BARB, SEPARATE AND APART FROM
>> BARB, SEPARATE AND APART FROM WHAT PAUL MANAFORT WILL FACE IN
WHAT PAUL MANAFORT WILL FACE IN D.C., IMAGINING THAT’S NOT GOING
D.C., IMAGINING THAT’S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN JUST WITH THIS
TO HAPPEN JUST WITH THIS SENTENCE HE GOT TONIGHT, WHICH
SENTENCE HE GOT TONIGHT, WHICH AGAIN YOU’RE DESCRIBING AS
AGAIN YOU’RE DESCRIBING AS ABSURDLY LOW, ABSURDLY LIGHT
ABSURDLY LOW, ABSURDLY LIGHT GIVEN THE GUIDELINES HERE, HOW
GIVEN THE GUIDELINES HERE, HOW LONG SHOULD WE EXPECT HE’LL
LONG SHOULD WE EXPECT HE’LL SERVE?
SERVE? I KEEP HEARING THERE IS NO
I KEEP HEARING THERE IS NO PAROLE IN FEDERAL PRISON BUT
PAROLE IN FEDERAL PRISON BUT PEOPLE CAN GET TIME OFF FOR GOOD
PEOPLE CAN GET TIME OFF FOR GOOD BEHAVIOR, CAN’T THEY?
BEHAVIOR, CAN’T THEY? >> YEAH, SINCE 1987 WHEN THE
>> YEAH, SINCE 1987 WHEN THE GUIDELINES WENT INTO EFFECT, THE
GUIDELINES WENT INTO EFFECT, THE REFORM ACT, THERE IS NO PAROLE
REFORM ACT, THERE IS NO PAROLE IN THE FEDERAL SYSTEM.
IN THE FEDERAL SYSTEM. SO UNLIKE WHAT YOU MIGHT SEE IN
SO UNLIKE WHAT YOU MIGHT SEE IN THE STATE SYSTEM WHERE AFTER
THE STATE SYSTEM WHERE AFTER SOMEBODY SERVES A PORTION OF THE
SOMEBODY SERVES A PORTION OF THE SENTENCE, THEY ARE ELIGIBLE TO
SENTENCE, THEY ARE ELIGIBLE TO GO BEFORE THE PAROLE BOARD AND
GO BEFORE THE PAROLE BOARD AND BE ABLE TO BE RELEASED AFTER
BE ABLE TO BE RELEASED AFTER THAT.
THAT. THAT DOES NOT EXIST IN THE
THAT DOES NOT EXIST IN THE FEDERAL SYSTEM.
FEDERAL SYSTEM. BUT THERE IS SOMETHING CALLED
BUT THERE IS SOMETHING CALLED GOOD TIME WHERE DEFENDANTS CAN
GOOD TIME WHERE DEFENDANTS CAN EARN UP TO 54 DAYS PER YEAR TO
EARN UP TO 54 DAYS PER YEAR TO PROVIDE AN INCENTIVE FOR THEM TO
PROVIDE AN INCENTIVE FOR THEM TO BEHAVE THEMSELVES WHILE IN
BEHAVE THEMSELVES WHILE IN PRISON.
PRISON. IF YOU DO THE MATH, FOUR YEARS,
IF YOU DO THE MATH, FOUR YEARS, 54 DAYS PER YEAR REMOVED FROM
54 DAYS PER YEAR REMOVED FROM THAT, THAT ADDS UP TO 216 DAYS,
THAT, THAT ADDS UP TO 216 DAYS, ABOUT SEVEN MONTHS.
ABOUT SEVEN MONTHS. SO SEVEN MONTHS OFF OF THE 47 IS
SO SEVEN MONTHS OFF OF THE 47 IS AT 45.
AT 45. YOU MENTIONED THE NINE MONTHS
YOU MENTIONED THE NINE MONTHS FOR TIME SERVED OFF OF THE 40
FOR TIME SERVED OFF OF THE 40 GETS HIM TO 31 MONTHS AND SO I
GETS HIM TO 31 MONTHS AND SO I THINK THAT’S THE ACTUAL TIME HE
THINK THAT’S THE ACTUAL TIME HE WILL SERVE STARTSINGED TOING TOD
WILL SERVE STARTSINGED TOING TOD >> PROVIDED HE GETS THE TIME.
>> PROVIDED HE GETS THE TIME. >> IF HE DOESN’T BEHAVE HIMSELF,
>> IF HE DOESN’T BEHAVE HIMSELF, HE WOULDN’T AND JUDGE JACKSON
HE WOULDN’T AND JUDGE JACKSON HAS THE ABILITY TO IMPOSE UP TO
HAS THE ABILITY TO IMPOSE UP TO TEN YEARS AND COULD MAKE EVERY
TEN YEARS AND COULD MAKE EVERY BIT OF THAT CONSECUTIVE.
BIT OF THAT CONSECUTIVE. SO HE COULD SEE AN ADDITIONAL
SO HE COULD SEE AN ADDITIONAL TEN YEARS ADDED ON TO THAT.
TEN YEARS ADDED ON TO THAT. >> WHEN JUDGE JACKSON MAKES THAT
>> WHEN JUDGE JACKSON MAKES THAT DECISION, THAT WILL BE
DECISION, THAT WILL BE FASCINATING TO WATCH.
FASCINATING TO WATCH. SHE’S LOOKING AT A TOTALLY
SHE’S LOOKING AT A TOTALLY DIFFERENT SET OF FELONY KNEEIES
DIFFERENT SET OF FELONY KNEEIES THERE IS A BIG DIFFERENCE OF THE
THERE IS A BIG DIFFERENCE OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES WITH GUILTY PLEA
CIRCUMSTANCES WITH GUILTY PLEA AND BOTCHED COOPERATION DEAL AND
AND BOTCHED COOPERATION DEAL AND SHE’S THE JUDGE THAT REVOKED HIS
SHE’S THE JUDGE THAT REVOKED HIS BAIL IN THE FIRST PLACE SO HE
BAIL IN THE FIRST PLACE SO HE HAD TO SERVE TIME IN JAIL WHILE
HAD TO SERVE TIME IN JAIL WHILE HE WAS AWAITING TRIAL IN THE
HE WAS AWAITING TRIAL IN THE FIRST PLACE.
FIRST PLACE. THERE IS A WHOLE DIFFERENT
THERE IS A WHOLE DIFFERENT NARRATIVE THAT GOES INTO
NARRATIVE THAT GOES INTO EXPLAINING WHAT JUDGE JACKSON
EXPLAINING WHAT JUDGE JACKSON WILL DECIDE NEXT WEEK.
WILL DECIDE NEXT WEEK. SPECIFICALLY, THOUGH, IN TERMS
SPECIFICALLY, THOUGH, IN TERMS OF HOW JUDGES MAKE THEIR
OF HOW JUDGES MAKE THEIR DECISIONS, IS SHE ALLOWED TO
DECISIONS, IS SHE ALLOWED TO TAKE INTO CONSIDERATION THE
TAKE INTO CONSIDERATION THE LENGTH OF TIME THAT HE WAS
LENGTH OF TIME THAT HE WAS SENTENCED FOR THIS WEEK?
SENTENCED FOR THIS WEEK? IS SHE ESSENTIALLY ALAWLOWED TO
IS SHE ESSENTIALLY ALAWLOWED TO PASS JUDGEMENT AND FACTOR THAT
PASS JUDGEMENT AND FACTOR THAT IN?
IN? >> NOT NECESSARILY BUT SHE CAN
>> NOT NECESSARILY BUT SHE CAN DECIDE WHETHER THAT’S CONCUR
DECIDE WHETHER THAT’S CONCUR RENT OR CONSECUTIVE.
RENT OR CONSECUTIVE. JUDGE ELLIS WAS LOOKING AT THE
JUDGE ELLIS WAS LOOKING AT THE CASE BEFORE HIM THAT INVOLVED
CASE BEFORE HIM THAT INVOLVED FINANCIAL FRAUD, BANK FRAUD AND
FINANCIAL FRAUD, BANK FRAUD AND TAX COUNTS AND THAT’S HIS CASE.
TAX COUNTS AND THAT’S HIS CASE. SHE’S GOING TO LOOK AT A VERY
SHE’S GOING TO LOOK AT A VERY DIFFERENT CASE AS YOU MENTIONED
DIFFERENT CASE AS YOU MENTIONED THAT INVOLVES OBSTRUCTION OF
THAT INVOLVES OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE, THE FAILED COOPERATION
JUSTICE, THE FAILED COOPERATION AGREEMENT.
AGREEMENT. SHE KNOWS A LOT ABOUT THIS CASE,
SHE KNOWS A LOT ABOUT THIS CASE, TOO, BECAUSE OF THE HEARINGS
TOO, BECAUSE OF THE HEARINGS THAT SHE’S HAD TO HOLD TO HAVE
THAT SHE’S HAD TO HOLD TO HAVE FACT-FINDING ON HIS FAILURE TO
FACT-FINDING ON HIS FAILURE TO COOPERATE IN THE BREACH OF THAT
COOPERATE IN THE BREACH OF THAT COOPERATION AGREEMENT.
COOPERATION AGREEMENT. SO SHE’S LOOKING AT A VERY
SO SHE’S LOOKING AT A VERY DIFFERENT CASE AND SO NO, I
DIFFERENT CASE AND SO NO, I DON’T THINK SHE SHOULD BE
DON’T THINK SHE SHOULD BE CONSIDERING WHAT JUDGE ELLIS DID
CONSIDERING WHAT JUDGE ELLIS DID IN HIS CASE BUT I THINK SHE CAN
IN HIS CASE BUT I THINK SHE CAN DECIDE THAT TEN YEARS IS AN
DECIDE THAT TEN YEARS IS AN APPROPRIATE SENTENCE IN HER CASE
APPROPRIATE SENTENCE IN HER CASE AND THAT IT IS APPROPRIATE TO
AND THAT IT IS APPROPRIATE TO MAKE THAT CONSECUTIVE TO THE
MAKE THAT CONSECUTIVE TO THE SENTENCE THAT JUDGE ELLIS
SENTENCE THAT JUDGE ELLIS IMPOSED.
IMPOSED. >> ONE LAST QUICK QUESTION,
>> ONE LAST QUICK QUESTION, MANAFORT AS I WAS JUST
MANAFORT AS I WAS JUST DISCUSSING DIDN’T REALLY EXPRESS
DISCUSSING DIDN’T REALLY EXPRESS REMORSE
REMORSE REMORSE OR TAKE RESPONSIBILITY
REMORSE OR TAKE RESPONSIBILITY FOR HIS CRIMES THE WAY A LOT OF
FOR HIS CRIMES THE WAY A LOT OF DEFENDANTS DO WHEN IT COMES TO
DEFENDANTS DO WHEN IT COMES TO ALLOCATION AT SENTENCING.
ALLOCATION AT SENTENCING. WE DON’T HAVE A TRANSCRIPT
WE DON’T HAVE A TRANSCRIPT BECAUSE IT WENT LATE BUT HE TOLD
BECAUSE IT WENT LATE BUT HE TOLD US THAT THE JUDGE BASICALLY
US THAT THE JUDGE BASICALLY EXPRESSED SURPRISE THAT MANAFORT
EXPRESSED SURPRISE THAT MANAFORT DIDN’T EXPRESS REMORSE WHEN HE
DIDN’T EXPRESS REMORSE WHEN HE HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO IN COURT
HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO IN COURT BEFORE ELLIS HANDED DOWN THE
BEFORE ELLIS HANDED DOWN THE SENTENCE.
SENTENCE. SHOULD WE THINK OF THAT IN TERMS
SHOULD WE THINK OF THAT IN TERMS OF MANAFORT ANGLING FOR A PARDON
OF MANAFORT ANGLING FOR A PARDON DO YOU THINK?
DO YOU THINK? HIM NOT SAYING I DID ANYTHING --
HIM NOT SAYING I DID ANYTHING -- STILL EVEN AT THAT POINT NOT
STILL EVEN AT THAT POINT NOT SAYING I DID ANYTHING WRONG OR
SAYING I DID ANYTHING WRONG OR SAYING HE’S SORRY FOR WHAT HE
SAYING HE’S SORRY FOR WHAT HE DID AND NOT SAYING THAT HE FEELS
DID AND NOT SAYING THAT HE FEELS BAD ABOUT IT OR THERE WAS
BAD ABOUT IT OR THERE WAS ANYTHING WRONG ABOUT HIS
ANYTHING WRONG ABOUT HIS BEHAVIOR IS THAT -- SHOULD WE
BEHAVIOR IS THAT -- SHOULD WE THINK ABOUT THAT BEHAVIOR IN
THINK ABOUT THAT BEHAVIOR IN COURT WHEN WE THINK ABOUT THE
COURT WHEN WE THINK ABOUT THE PROSPECT OF A PRESIDENTIAL
PROSPECT OF A PRESIDENTIAL PARDON FOR MANAFORT?
PARDON FOR MANAFORT? >> I DON’T THINK SO.
>> I DON’T THINK SO. I DON’T THINK IT MATTERS.
I DON’T THINK IT MATTERS. REMEMBER, HE PLEADED GUILTY IN
REMEMBER, HE PLEADED GUILTY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLOMBIA TO ALL
THE DISTRICT OF COLOMBIA TO ALL OF THE REMAINING COUNTS IN THE
OF THE REMAINING COUNTS IN THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA CASE, AS WELL AS THAT CASE.
CASE, AS WELL AS THAT CASE. AND SO I DON’T THINK SO.
AND SO I DON’T THINK SO. IN FACT, A PARDON DOESN’T
IN FACT, A PARDON DOESN’T MEAN -- IT’S NOT THE SAME AS AN
MEAN -- IT’S NOT THE SAME AS AN APPEAL.
APPEAL. IT DOESN’T MEAN YOU’RE INNOCENT.
IT DOESN’T MEAN YOU’RE INNOCENT. WHAT IT SAYS IS WE ARE
WHAT IT SAYS IS WE ARE EXPRESSING MERCY AND FORGIVENESS
EXPRESSING MERCY AND FORGIVENESS FOR YOU FOR COMMITTING THIS
FOR YOU FOR COMMITTING THIS CRIME AND ORDINARILY, PART OF
CRIME AND ORDINARILY, PART OF THE PARDON IS IN ACCEPT TENSE OF
THE PARDON IS IN ACCEPT TENSE OF RESPONSIBILITY AND REMORSE.
RESPONSIBILITY AND REMORSE. THIS IS ARROGANCE AND YOU SEE IT
THIS IS ARROGANCE AND YOU SEE IT IN WHITE COLLAR CASES WHERE THE
IN WHITE COLLAR CASES WHERE THE DEFENDANT SAYS I FEEL SO MUCH
DEFENDANT SAYS I FEEL SO MUCH SHAME, YOUR HONOR, I’VE BEEN
SHAME, YOUR HONOR, I’VE BEEN PUNISHED ALREADY.
PUNISHED ALREADY. I CAN’T GO INTO MY COUNTRY CLUB
I CAN’T GO INTO MY COUNTRY CLUB WITHOUT GETTING A SENSE OF SHAME
WITHOUT GETTING A SENSE OF SHAME AND ET GGETTING LETTERS FROM
AND ET GGETTING LETTERS FROM PROMINENT PEOPLE.
PROMINENT PEOPLE. TELL THAT TO THE INDEJEN DENT
TELL THAT TO THE INDEJEN DENT PEOPLE.
PEOPLE. >> IT IS AN HONOR TO HAVE YOU AS
>> IT IS AN HONOR TO HAVE YOU AS A COLLEAGUE BUT ESPECIALLY ON
A COLLEAGUE BUT ESPECIALLY ON NIGHTS LIKE THIS.